Add IQS017 rule (#2382)
home-assistant/developers.home-assistant: docs/core/integration-quality-scale/rules/iqs017.md

---

> title: "IQS017 - Services raise errors when encountering failures"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: "IQS017 - Service actions raise errors when encountering failures"
```

---

IQS017 is as follows:

> Services raise errors when encountering failures

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Service actions raise errors when encountering failures
```

> Service actions raise errors when encountering failures

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Service actions raise exceptions when encountering failures
```

## Reasoning

> Things can go wrong when a service is executed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Things can go wrong when a service action is performed.
```

> When this happens, the integration should raise an error to indicate that something went wrong.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When this happens, the integration should raise an exception to indicate that something went wrong.
```

> These will be shown to the user in the UI, and can be used to help diagnose the issue.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The exception message will be shown to the user in the UI, and can be used to help diagnose the issue. The message will either be generated from the attached translation string or from the exception argument.
```

## Example implementation

> When the exception is caused by incorrect usage (for example incorrect input or referencing something that does not exist) should raise a `ServiceValidationError`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When the problem is caused by incorrect usage (for example incorrect input or referencing something that does not exist) we should raise a `ServiceValidationError`.
```

> When the exception is caused by an error in the service itself (for example a network error or a bug in the service) should raise a `HomeAssistantError`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the exception is caused by an error in the service action itself (for example, a network error or a bug in the service), it should raise a `HomeAssistantError`.
```

> When the exception is caused by an error in the service action itself (for example, a network error or a bug in the service), it should raise a `HomeAssistantError`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When the problem is caused by an error in the service action itself (for example, a network error or a bug in the service), we should raise a `HomeAssistantError`.
```

> In this example, we show a function that is registered as a service in Home Assistant.
> If the input is incorrect (when the end date is before the start date), a `ServiceValidationError` is raised and if we can't reach the service, we raise a `HomeAssistantError`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this example, we show a function that is registered as a service action in Home Assistant.
If the input is incorrect (when the end date is before the start date), a `ServiceValidationError` is raised, and if we can't reach the service, we raise a `HomeAssistantError`.
```

```python
async def async_set_schedule(call: ServiceCall) -> ServiceResponse:
    """Set the schedule for a day."""
    start_date = call.data[ATTR_START_DATE]
    end_date = call.data[ATTR_END_DATE]
    if end_date < start_date:

>         raise ServiceValidationError("End date must be after start date")

Reviewer: I think we need to showcase best practices (and thus use translations from the get-go).

Author: I agree, but I haven't done that consistent. For example, in IQS001, the config flow, I am also not making an ideal config flow where we check a connection and check for already existing integrations

    try:
        await client.set_schedule(start_date, end_date)
    except MyConnectionError as err:
        raise HomeAssistantError("Could not connect to the schedule") from err
```

## Additional resources

For more info on raising exceptions, check the [documentation](../../platform/raising_exceptions).

## Exceptions

There are no exceptions to this rule.

## Related rules

- IQS030 - Errors are translatable
- IQS035 - Services are added in async_setup

> - IQS048 - The documentation described the provided actions that can be used.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- IQS048 - The documentation describes the provided actions that can be used.
```
